Gwenevere Abriel: Know here. I don't know if you used to do any last minute settling in.
Nadine Quintana: And
Gwenevere Abriel: How has your week been
Nadine Quintana: Good.
Nadine Quintana: I just woke up with a girl, Eric. My ears hurting really bad.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I've got someone else in this program that's got one of those
Gwenevere Abriel: Was you. Was there any other kind of
Gwenevere Abriel: Infection in the house. Anybody have a cold or anything.
Nadine Quintana: No.
Gwenevere Abriel: Gone it
Gwenevere Abriel: Is how many days is a bit like that.
Nadine Quintana: I just woke up like that. Just know
Oh,
Nadine Quintana: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's just touch base on some things like sleep and
Gwenevere Abriel: Kind of eating kind of some fundamentals of your sleep in.
Nadine Quintana: Your house. Yeah, I haven't been sleeping together.
Nadine Quintana: Like I have been having a really hard time going to sleep and I've been going to sleep like around
Nadine Quintana: Like maybe
Nadine Quintana: Let's see. Friday. Friday, I would just sleep like around almost five o'clock in the morning.
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you notice it has kind of changed.
Gwenevere Abriel: In the sort of that sleep hygiene.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're not wanting to be doing maybe still sleeping in later like what do you think's changing and
Nadine Quintana: I wake up.
Nadine Quintana: Around the same time I all I always do. Even when I go to sleep early, that means
Nadine Quintana: I'm
Nadine Quintana: Sam really not doing anything different. Everything's done the scene.
Gwenevere Abriel: How many days. Have you been doing it like that. We're staying up till
Nadine Quintana: The day before yesterday so
Nadine Quintana: Like three days.
Gwenevere Abriel: And
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you noticing that your cognitive. That means you know your brain isn't a sharp and you're not able to to think kind as clearly as you'd like.
Nadine Quintana: I noticed
Nadine Quintana: When I go to like see something right. I forget what I'm seeing.
Nadine Quintana: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's that would be sharpness right from
London.
Gwenevere Abriel: When they're looking for a word is this. It's almost like they can't they can't find the word and you're saying, and start talking about something and you forget what you were talking about.
Gwenevere Abriel: Uh huh. Yeah, yeah. So we really do need rest. That's one of the reasons why I asked people sometimes as I did this morning is the first thing I might ask.
Gwenevere Abriel: And noticing your body's also feeling in distress to there's something going on with that left left here this morning.
Gwenevere Abriel: So other any additional like dynamics that are going on. Maybe between your son or watching your son and daughter or mom and son or you had husband or any dynamics going on that might even be way in sort of the background and your mind.
Nadine Quintana: Whoa.
Nadine Quintana: My mom's been driving me a little crazy.
Gwenevere Abriel: And she's living with you are not living with you.
Nadine Quintana: Know, she doesn't
Gwenevere Abriel: Tell me what's been going on.
Nadine Quintana: Okay, she
Nadine Quintana: Okay, so I just got a new car. Okay. And before I got this car she she she like all of a sudden like one day was like, here's my vehicle use that. Like, I don't need it. No more so she gave me her vehicle.
Nadine Quintana: Because she's like, I don't go nowhere. So just have it because she retired from work and stuff. So she's like you need it for work and the kids or whatever. So I was like, Okay, cool.
Nadine Quintana: Well, one time I heard her talking tonight. And this was a while back. This was, I wish you first gave me the vehicle and she was had my out yeah I gave an ad in the truck, because
Nadine Quintana: You know, I don't really like to drive any place so she just takes me where I need to go. So I was like, all right, that's the reason, whatever.
You know,
Nadine Quintana: And then, okay, so it was like
Nadine Quintana: It started when I was working out work, she would call me out. I need to go here, I need to go there and then it got to the point where I was overworking myself to
Nadine Quintana: Getting out of work and then going straight to do whatever she needed to do and then I need to do what I need to do and
Nadine Quintana: Okay, so that been going on for a while. Okay, so I got my new car. And I was like, okay, you know, I told her.
Nadine Quintana: I'm going to clean your, your truck up I'm going to wash it for you and stuff. And I'll give it back to you. You know that way if you
Nadine Quintana: ever need to go someplace you have your own view whole
Nadine Quintana: She goes, and calls my tells my son.
Nadine Quintana: Go ahead and take the trick for work.
Nadine Quintana: So I'm stuck, taking her where she needs to go.
Nadine Quintana: And it's driving me crazy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, when, when did that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Get realized right what you just said.
Nadine Quintana: There may be like
Nadine Quintana: Two weeks ago.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I want to reflect something back listen to something you said the last time we met.
Gwenevere Abriel: I taught myself when I don't agree with someone like my mom sister kids. I don't attack them right away, less defensive. Mom, it's never going to change.
Gwenevere Abriel: She has her when she has little remark I bite my tongue to let my until myself. Let her get it off her chest. If she said something about me. I defend myself in a way, I'm not arguing with her.
Gwenevere Abriel: She has it in her mind that me and my sister are better off alone found out I was talking to my husband again. Why are you talking to him, you have been doing so good. That is the father of my child. I am not cutting him out of my life, whatever happens between us.
Gwenevere Abriel: He used to treat me bad I have learned to forgive him. This is my business. And then we looks like self trust. I know what is good for me.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know how to communicate with him. Now, if something bothers me. I communicate right then and there, without yelling and cussing. I have learned to open up with him.
Gwenevere Abriel: And he noticed it. I tell him that when he asked for things. I couldn't do it did not have the resources it got to me. Got me mad and stressed out, he was sorry he was like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: I like that he is changing to we needed the two years. We were apart.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so that's not the whole thing, but I'm gonna go down here a little bit. Um, I'm glad I gave him the two years. I'm proud of him.
Gwenevere Abriel: They see the change in me. They tell me I'm proud of you. I think you're talking about your kids, you have a good head on your shoulders.
Gwenevere Abriel: Not sure who's telling you that I have a good mom. Yeah, okay, you have a good head on your shoulders. I have a good life. I will be okay by myself. But having people around is a bonus, I see the way I was before questioned everything and cautious.
Gwenevere Abriel: Remember that last group thinking just do it when said just said it did not overthink before we questioned myself, Is this the right answer. Now it's better. No pressure. Say what comes up first. It is always the real answer.
Gwenevere Abriel: If no one likes what I say shoulder shrug.
Gwenevere Abriel: That is just how I feel. I want to apologize for what I feel I need to quit being scared and work on this.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to make sure it stays like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so what's this making you think about
Nadine Quintana: Or maybe think about like
Nadine Quintana: I just
Nadine Quintana: I just need to tell her.
Nadine Quintana: Like I'm getting stressed out, she's really stressing me out well.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's do some. I agree. And we don't have to go anywhere. Beyond that today.
Gwenevere Abriel: But let's do some
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's do some role play with it so you can tease out words you like I can play out worst case scenarios we can get all the way through it so that you can know everything's going to be okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: She's still gonna love you. She's not going to nothing. It's not going to be catastrophic. Okay, you're going to be okay. But I mean, what did you notice how you were thinking in that session.
Nadine Quintana: I was just thinking like
Nadine Quintana: Well what came to mind was
Nadine Quintana: Like she doesn't
Nadine Quintana: She doesn't like
Nadine Quintana: Listen to what I have to see. It's like what I have to say is like
Nadine Quintana: She'll say or opinion about whatever chef to say
Nadine Quintana: And it's like, I just stay quiet.
Gwenevere Abriel: When she has a little remark I bite my tongue and tell myself letter, get it off your chest. What if needing she's doing the same thing to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: What if you guys aren't showing each other. And this is you've made progress needy. Why don't we move to the next level.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's more to this communication. This than just shutting up and speaking, there's more to it and it's showing up right now. It's because of the stress situation with her.
Nadine Quintana: Um, I get scared, is what it is. And I could write a column, like I want to tell her. And I wonder, like, just tell her, like how it really is how I really, really feel and but then Michael part of me that tells me, like, oh, she's just gonna say what she always says, and like
Nadine Quintana: For instance, like if I tell her like
Nadine Quintana: This is just an example. Like I told her, like, I don't have nothing on my record like I don't have anything on my driving record it's clean.
Nadine Quintana: It into the myth of, say, Oh, they're lying to you. They never tell you they never tell you the truth, you probably have you probably do have stuff on your record and I make or
Gwenevere Abriel: Right there, that's too perfect. We can pass it by
Gwenevere Abriel: A slow time down. This is really, really good because you gave me content.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: They're lying to you right there. Tell me the emotion you feel right there. They're lying to you.
Nadine Quintana: I get angry, I get really angry, but I
Gwenevere Abriel: Wait, wait. Stay there. We got the emotion. This is really slowing time down. It's just, we're just gonna stay right there. Probably the whole time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, because the way you've been doing it is everything gets skipped over this is so habituated and normal for you grew up with this.
Gwenevere Abriel: And
Gwenevere Abriel: You're so let's just see if this is this is the spot. So here we go. We got you're angry. Now, how
Gwenevere Abriel: Readily available are all the things that maybe you've learned in group of you've heard in group or maybe we've played with some different ways of communicating when you're angry.
Gwenevere Abriel: Do you have access to access to those phrases to those communication skills in your head, or do you really just want to shout out or
Nadine Quintana: Well, I do like a brief thing is, I'll just say
Nadine Quintana: Take a deep breath.
Nadine Quintana: And I notice I do that a lot when I'm around her.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so then that helps that's going to help you remember, then what to do, then what happens after that. So she does this and you're quiet and you're breathing.
Gwenevere Abriel: But she has said a piece of content. It sits there and that's the kind of thing that you're giving me an example of something that happens probably fairly regularly.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it may represent that she's not listening to you and she didn't hear you. Another so we're going to stay right there.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm just gonna just going to go over to maybe another option for your mother could have been. She's not in the room, but I'm just letting you know that you're not insane.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, isn't that wonderful, my goodness, that's, that's really good. That means you know if you ever want to do this or this with your career, you ever do a background check. That's so awesome. That's really good. You know,
Gwenevere Abriel: That's another she could have responded like that.
Mm hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: With that I've made you angry.
Nadine Quintana: No.
Nadine Quintana: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: What did you want. We're just going to go there for a second and we're gonna go back to this little task, we're doing, what did you want to hear. So
Nadine Quintana: You know,
Nadine Quintana: Wonder say oh well you know that's good that you don't have anything on your record, you know,
Nadine Quintana: But suppose that
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. Um, and that that role of
Gwenevere Abriel: Nurturing, the one that was your cheerleader, and your champion and a Christian was in your father's I recall
Gwenevere Abriel: It's all right. Don't
Nadine Quintana: Say that again.
Gwenevere Abriel: The one that encouraged you, was your father.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so let's go back.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's go back to the sequence of, well, they're just lying to you they don't really give you the real information and and you're angry and you breathe. What happens next.
Nadine Quintana: I tell you what they'd like to says the MVP. They're not gonna lie to me if I have a messed up record. That's the last thing they're going to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so you you inquired into your mother's logic.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. Why would they lie to me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, what were you hoping to get
Gwenevere Abriel: From that
Nadine Quintana: I was hoping chief they quit agree with me, but to be honest with you, I think that she does it. Just get on my nerves. I really believe I really believe she says things just to get to
Gwenevere Abriel: To get you angry.
Nadine Quintana: Yeah, I am really excited to think that because she doing this too much to
Nadine Quintana: Like the point where, like, I'm really like on your verge of a nervous breakdown.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. Okay, so we're really getting into it. So, this I think that's the sign. What we're picking up on on this sleep. That's, that's when you know something's up. Okay. So thank you, we're really getting to it. So, look how important this is. So let's just find out
Gwenevere Abriel: When you weigh out the impact the risk factors of a nervous breakdown. What's at stake, what could happen if you actually have one
Nadine Quintana: Everything.
Nadine Quintana: Everything that I have worked
For
Gwenevere Abriel: The specific that's fake. Tell me, what do you mean
Nadine Quintana: Like I
Nadine Quintana: Have a good job. I have a nice house. I have a nice vehicle right my family's finally like my, my family.
Nadine Quintana: Is finally doing
Nadine Quintana: Good. You know, we're getting the long word
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Nadine Quintana: I got my family back together and
Gwenevere Abriel: So put those two things in a sentence together on your own. Okay, if this thing happens.
Gwenevere Abriel: This other outcome might happen if this happens, this might happen.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because right now, they're kind of separate and I know it's emotional. That means we're onto something.
Important for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's because you're Kevin slept honey that this this emotion stuff is the combination of having capture bit your tongue for so long.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so much is at stake. All good things. Okay. But this, but there's you're going to feel empowered at the end of this. Okay, that's the destiny. It's not just going to be to have you feel
Gwenevere Abriel: Helpless or uncertain okay but but the intensity. That's the no sleep. We all get like that our emotions are right on the edge because we have to have rest. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright so this this this will pass this feeling will pass and you're going to get some sleep. It's going to be okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because the truth is your family is good. You do have a vehicle you have this job and you, you guys are fine. You're fine. This thing that the dynamic switch in your in your mom it been happening for years, but you're changing
Gwenevere Abriel: Your willingness to
Gwenevere Abriel: Sacrifice
Gwenevere Abriel: Your soul, your integrity. The piece about you that that's what psychotherapy, does it makes folks kind of more and more honest with themselves and with people. It just keeps getting more and more real like HONEST. HONEST, back to back.
Gwenevere Abriel: And here we just found a relationship that's missing a piece of real genuine contact
Gwenevere Abriel: Scary really scary.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I get it, I get it. So, will will be real gentle and no way am I going to tell you go do this or go do that all we're going to do is just, we're just going to see what's there. You get to hear another person's perspective on it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like some of the stuff we're doing. We could play with it again, but mostly an urgently.
Gwenevere Abriel: Sleep and how you get to sleep is having made a decision. And so let's see if you can get a decision decisions aren't even just up in your head like this is how I'm going to be this is how I'm going to be, that's a decision.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so let's come back.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or they're lying to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now you can register angry use that amazing skill of breath, which means you got back in your body, which means your brains thinking
Gwenevere Abriel: All these cool things you have access to stuff and you were able to, you didn't pop off on her and you asked her for some logic, but do you realize that you're asking logic from someone you said why typically means let me hear your rationale
Gwenevere Abriel: But then, do you know the next thing you said was, I think she says these things to bug me to get under my skin to bother me. What did you say, oh, get it says it to get to me. I'm assuming enough to piss you off.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, yeah. So, so, look what look what you're you're doing. I mean this this is just an opinion, but it looks like you're looking for logic from someone that all they want to do is piss you off.
Gwenevere Abriel: Won't work.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because look what the intention is behind it. So if he her intention is to what
Gwenevere Abriel: To piss you off. So if she can if she didn't want to show that to you she going to want to own it.
Gwenevere Abriel: No, no. So what's happening is you're angry and you want her to understand and this is this is these are the levels that we're going to get to how you're feeling
Gwenevere Abriel: But her intentions are to have you feel that way.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's and it doesn't make her wicked, evil, any of those words what it does, is there something this I don't know your guys's dynamic very well because you kind of pushing it with younger fine. We're getting along better
Gwenevere Abriel: And so now we're getting some nitty gritty stuff. And now we can get into it because I can try to understand the the ongoing pattern that might have been existing with your mom. It could be who knows is it
Gwenevere Abriel: Has she been doing this and she she elevates herself.
Gwenevere Abriel: She needs you to need her. She needs you to feel small. So that she can take advantage of you to have your driver places. I mean, you do know that it's an endless possibility of scenarios. I have no idea. But the reason why we do it sometimes is because we want power.
Gwenevere Abriel: And your mom may not be aware that she's doing that.
Gwenevere Abriel: But when you're small and unsettled she wins and she has power.
Gwenevere Abriel: Not great intentions but I but remember what I say about people, I say, you know, we don't do things for nothing. We do it because we have learned to adapt in some way and then we're doing the best we can. So there's something about what she learned the way she's feeling
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't think she knows any other way to be that's my guess.
Gwenevere Abriel: There. Do you know what I'm trying to say.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so you're coming at her with, why not so much. I don't think you're going to be able to get to what you want.
Gwenevere Abriel: If what you're saying because I believe you that her intentions are to
Gwenevere Abriel: If it were me
Gwenevere Abriel: I would feel minimized, as if like
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't exist. I would be like,
Gwenevere Abriel: Unimportant in that moment in that particular kind of conversation like what I'm experienced. I literally went from an excited and proud.
Gwenevere Abriel: Angry
Gwenevere Abriel: And confused because you asked her why question right but you're not confused. You do know you've been living with this for a long time you know exactly what she's doing. She's trying to unsettle you
Gwenevere Abriel: Like confusing, but you don't like it, what you haven't learned is really accepting what your mom is. I mean, really, really accepting it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because then you don't ask why I believe you.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you say, I think it's to get to me.
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you think of a mom that does that to her daughter.
Nadine Quintana: To be honest with you, I, I really think
Nadine Quintana: She's going through her own sister.
Nadine Quintana: She
Nadine Quintana: She just tried today.
Nadine Quintana: I don't know, she she kind of made because just to make comments, you know, like
Nadine Quintana: Like, oh well you should do this. And, oh, you should do that or, oh, you shouldn't do this or you know she does stuff like that and
Nadine Quintana: And I think in some kind of like little way she kind of like once me and not only me but my sister, too, because she does the same thing to my sister.
Nadine Quintana: To like cab. The life she wanted because she'll start making comments like, Oh, I wish I didn't get married, I wish I had
Nadine Quintana: A lots of money. I wish I would have had a better life, and she'll start saying like, Oh, I wish I didn't have the kids that I had and like all of a sudden, she started saying like weird stuff, stuff like that. I think that's really how she feels and she's starting to
Nadine Quintana: Like that at all.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, well,
Nadine Quintana: It kind of sounds
Nadine Quintana: Like regret and she like, that's why. Maybe she treats.
Nadine Quintana: Like us the way that she does. And she says, the stuff that she wants is because maybe I think like a big part of her like regrets having us, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: And you do realize that isn't about your value.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's not, but it's hard for us as children to still sit with that we can know it logically. I know that's her issues. You just told me that
Gwenevere Abriel: But at the same time, we can't. As humans, we can't leap over this is our parent, if they exist like at the same time. It's like, yeah, I get why you would do that. But how dare you, like, it's like not even. It's like a both
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah okay very adult thing to be able to sit with those with those two thoughts. So this is where you come in. Where this piece where you notice you're going to notice the anger, but that anger is protecting
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, a tender spot.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because look, look how you were feeling before you were feeling excited. The you guys have it MVD ours. It's DMV. So I have to like write this word down. It's so different, different states.
Nadine Quintana: Yeah mbd
Gwenevere Abriel: This Department of Motor Vehicles over here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Um, so
Gwenevere Abriel: You have a moment right there that you're doing all these really great things look how insightful, you are, you wouldn't have had this stuff when we first met, you wouldn't have seen all that
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, you're, you're doing fantastic. So in a way, it's a compliment to how much you've grown because that means your mom is starting to ready to shift and change.
Gwenevere Abriel: And she and you can handle it. Right. Maybe there's this sort of once you change the whole system starts to like adjust when someone makes a change. And that might be, what, there's a new settling in your mom might be starting to leak, a little bit of her own.
Gwenevere Abriel: Choices in her own life. But those are her choices.
Gwenevere Abriel: So if she knew that you were bold enough brave enough proud enough confident enough to hear it directly.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe there would be some honest genuine conversation. So how do we do that, how do we do that when we see what is this sort of hostile thing which is oh well you know what they're just a bunch of liars and they don't tell you the truth anyway.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, it puts her in a position of victim right there. Like, I have no control and and will visit. So all this to say, notice that you asked, why would the DMV do that.
Gwenevere Abriel: But do you want to talk with your mom about this assumption you have and you and I do both you and your sister talk about like maybe Mom's going through a crisis.
Nadine Quintana: Yeah, we say she's crazy
Nadine Quintana: Yeah, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, so you're both probably on to it. And so what if we do this so we can say that to mom because. She'll. She'll get offended. So do what we can do is
Gwenevere Abriel: Is we use the skill of empathy. It's literally you go, Wait a second. And you can do it through lots of different ones like choosing curiosity over being right. You are right.
Gwenevere Abriel: But that's not going to get your connection so you turn that one on. You go, Pam hungry. I'm breathing. Why would she do that. Oh wait, she's trying to get under my skin. Why is she getting under my skin is getting under my skin because she's feeling helpless and regret.
Gwenevere Abriel: He's got there. Now I did those steps just now, but I think over days at least. I know you get there. I don't know how long. Maybe I'll a few minutes, you might get there right away. The sooner you can get there. Guess what, now I'm sitting here with this woman, and all of a sudden, wait a minute.
Gwenevere Abriel: Disappointment regret I know those
Gwenevere Abriel: And now I can turn to my mom.
Gwenevere Abriel: Um, what does that light to be to believe that the the MVD isn't like even telling you the truth, like there's a government organization. How does that make you feel
Gwenevere Abriel: Whoa. That is not what she's expecting to hear
Gwenevere Abriel: Where you care about her underlying feelings. She's so used to meeting all y'all by getting a sense of importance, a sense of
Gwenevere Abriel: Power, as I mentioned, power comes from a lot of funny I angles I getting you upset.
Gwenevere Abriel: She knows she's still got y'all like getting you unraveled and upset.
Gwenevere Abriel: But that's the old recipe. If you do remember how you've noticed the system is changing when you do something different, your husband's changing your kids are noticing you have all these wonderful things happening, you're proud of all this work you've done
Gwenevere Abriel: You do this thing which there are multiple steps, right. But even though I break them down and they're taking minutes they can be in within 10 seconds or a microsecond in go like that, right, like
Gwenevere Abriel: Chicago's just being passive aggressive, you know, just being cray cray. Okay, well, what is really going on. She's afraid.
Gwenevere Abriel: She's sad. I know I in ears were empathy goes right it's like I have felt sadness disappointment and regret, forget about it, man. I know my grad dang, I do. Let me turn to my mom because the other ways not working.
Gwenevere Abriel: Where right where you
Gwenevere Abriel: And it builds up and builds up because, look, look what's happening nervous breakdown and all these things are at stake.
Gwenevere Abriel: So are you. Right. Are we really willing to let go a job vehicle family, husband, he sobriety. It's all right there, because that's what nervous breakdowns. Listen, can we don't want to break down.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so we say I will do anything to not break down and then we start a lot of people start using again so
Gwenevere Abriel: Or slower self medicating pretending this way and that way it just starts we stopped being honest and genuine
Gwenevere Abriel: Because we can't afford to break down. And so then that's the excuse to program. I can't break down. I can't break down. Well, wait. So here's a moment for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you say, Is it worth it for me to have all lose all these things all this pride, all these things that it's got this nice flow. It just works just fine. We show up. We work hard. We get money.
Gwenevere Abriel: We communicate with our children. We set of contingencies. They get things done. They show respect. It's working.
Gwenevere Abriel: But with mom. This is not a dynamic that you've addressed.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now,
Nadine Quintana: I am
Nadine Quintana: Like, I really like want to tell her. Sometimes a cow. I feel and tell her like cow.
Nadine Quintana: How she's getting me, you know, like I wish I could talk to her like that, but
Nadine Quintana: Like a part of me likes like a voice in my head is saying I
Nadine Quintana: Don't because she's just gonna cry and she's going to make you feel bad and she's going to try to
Nadine Quintana: Do all these things. So she's gonna be mad at me and then she's gonna she's been doing this little thing and then something new. She's never done this before, where she's going and she's like making up stories.
Nadine Quintana: Initial go and tell my sister, like, Oh, I did this chair and I do that. Sure, and
Nadine Quintana: It's a lie. It's like a real light and
Nadine Quintana: Then I have my sister telling me off and I that
Nadine Quintana: That really like
Nadine Quintana: That makes me want to just say, okay,
Nadine Quintana: I'm not even talked to her.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know. And this is really an I get that what you are, you are seeing is the effect of her her behavior and I get that. But the kind of things that I'm inviting right now are
Gwenevere Abriel: Like up there with like the really self examined person. This is like up there in like Buddha land. Okay, so when I'm talking about. It's not an easy thing to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: But notice how I went to, we're going to investigate how long is feeling and notice where you went to which is you focus on your feelings.
Gwenevere Abriel: For now I want to tell her how I feel. I'm going to tell you right now, needing she can't hear you.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's not because she doesn't love you. She can't
Gwenevere Abriel: So if you keep right if we don't have radical acceptance into that your mother can't hear your vulnerability how she's hurt you. She can't hear it right now, right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: So if. First, it means
Gwenevere Abriel: getting her to feel safe getting her to be able to own her own feelings.
Gwenevere Abriel: Then maybe she'll be able to hear you but people that don't feel safe and she doesn't, she's having to lie in order to justify and built herself up. Now that's a problem. This is not someone I would recommend that you open all your guts and feelings to I wouldn't recommend it.
Gwenevere Abriel: She's going to manipulate you, right, like, just like you said cry dominant dominate would play the martyr, and the victim even more to get you to stop. She's going to put you in the position you know that triangle. I've shown you guys a position of the
Gwenevere Abriel: persecutor she's gonna put you in that role, even though that's not what you're doing. You're just sharing. She's gonna say how could you tell me this, everything I've done, I've sacrificed.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh boy.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: You could probably predict that pretty well you just did. You said she's going to start crying. And then what we can't keep telling someone how we feel when they're sitting there crying because they're making it about them.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or her so you know it's going to happen. So why don't we start there.
Gwenevere Abriel: And yes, this means swallowing your pride aging.
Gwenevere Abriel: It does, but who's the stronger woman, the one that can say I know my truth.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, this is some crazy behavior.
Gwenevere Abriel: And she's doing it because she's probably really scared to
Nadine Quintana: We're
Gwenevere Abriel: nasty things when we're scared.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or mean and vindictive and
Gwenevere Abriel: It looks like she's afraid she's going to lose. I don't know what this bit of why don't know what it is with you guys, something's really going on with your mom.
Gwenevere Abriel: Lying just to stir the pot.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's a problem. And then you and your sister, and it will, it does a lot of good things for her. It keeps all the attention off for her. You guys look like the problem, she can come in there and rescue. I mean, it does, it can do all kinds of great things for her.
Gwenevere Abriel: You see that
Uh huh.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's power in that wisdom and that knowing
Gwenevere Abriel: Hey sis look something's going on with mom. If you ever hear anything that just sounds kind of wacky do
Gwenevere Abriel: Just check it out. There's something something going on with her. I love. He says, like I just wonder if she's just trying to get negative attention somehow just assume it's not true and just come talk to me because I'm not talking smack about you. I'm just doing my thing. Yeah.
Nadine Quintana: Well, at first I did try time my sister that and she didn't believe me.
Nadine Quintana: And then now. My mom is up there with her. So I have a good little break. But now my sisters by
Nadine Quintana: Seeing what I'm going through
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, well there you're gonna have an ally.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. OK. So now we've done all of that work.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want you to experience what it feels like.
Gwenevere Abriel: To do the skill of choose curiosity over being right. And of course, what's happening is empathy.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you're first going to get pissed because that is going to happen. You've been doing that for years to protect the
Gwenevere Abriel: How could you you're hurting your own daughter like knock it off. You know, like that's going to happen and in good reason right to protect the underbelly the squishy hurt sad afraid self.
Gwenevere Abriel: But then you breathe.
Gwenevere Abriel: You remember Mom's going through crisis.
Gwenevere Abriel: She's doing lots of manipulative things with the whole car thing. I mean, that's what just say it. I don't want to drive anymore drive me around shows me love me. You girls are shows me that you love me, she's nowhere near being ready to say that stuff.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it might still be true. And I'm sorry the burdens on you for being the smartest person in the family, but there it is.
Gwenevere Abriel: Sometimes it's like that. And it's a burden.
Nadine Quintana: Mm hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you are still deserving of clear communication. So here we go. So right you got yes will be angry.
Gwenevere Abriel: Birds breeze. And you remember, wait a minute. I know what I know what I know, I know what I know. I know what's going on here. I'm not, I'm not crazy.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know my mom is gaslighting me
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'm assuming. I've given you the whole spiel on that right you know all about what gaslighting is okay so
Gwenevere Abriel: How do I do curiosity.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right now, so I'm going to make a recommendation, you're probably going to want to say why.
Gwenevere Abriel: Nothing makes someone more defensive than a why question. So do your best to try not to. If it pops out anyway we'll go with that. And then we'll rewind it will do it another way, but let's just give it a shot.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I want you to
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, and the whole your effort is going to be to investigate.
Gwenevere Abriel: What's it like for you, mom to have that belief, get it.
Gwenevere Abriel: What does that feel kind of thinking that the
Gwenevere Abriel: MVD that has you know all your driving records. I'm sort of conspires like what's it like to believe, to not believe in such a large organization you but you got to actually want to know. That's the hard part. You got to find even if it's
Gwenevere Abriel: You just have to want to know and care about her and love her enough to bypass your pride, just because we're going to try and get me to feel safe.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, and you're going to care about me for a second.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright, so do you want to stick with this same story, or is there another one if you give me a line and it can be really spontaneous with it. What's something else that she said that was just like you got to be kidding me or soap best
Nadine Quintana: Oh my god, there's so many
Nadine Quintana: There was one where we
Nadine Quintana: She was like mad, and she called me up pissed off because she just told off my niece for getting a ticket in my car as she kind of made it her problem, like, oh, now I'm gonna have to stress about it and now I'm gonna have to
Nadine Quintana: Take care of it and
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. Well give me
Gwenevere Abriel: Give me a nice name. I won't get the story just
Gwenevere Abriel: Chill, you'll get a chance
Nadine Quintana: Maddie.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maddie, I mean,
Nadine Quintana: Let's be sorry. It was a nice Leslie
Gwenevere Abriel: So Leslie and Leslie's how all
Gwenevere Abriel: 15 Leslie 50 she was driving, she was driving the car.
Nadine Quintana: Yeah, she was driving, just to go up the street and I let her and she went around the block.
And
Nadine Quintana: Then she got sick or for running the steps.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, not only that but she wasn't with anyone in the car, right.
Gwenevere Abriel: My daughter is your daughter 25 or how old is she,
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, okay. So she got in trouble because she didn't have a license either. She has a permit. But so there's more than just running stop sign.
Gwenevere Abriel: Mm hmm. OK. OK, I got it, I got it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so
Gwenevere Abriel: I call you up and I say,
Gwenevere Abriel: Did you have any does your mom call you something.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't see how you could let this happen. These are just girls and now I have to deal with this ticket. I gotta go to this MTG these people. I can't believe you're putting me through this. This is unacceptable. What kind of mom would do that.
Nadine Quintana: First of all,
Nadine Quintana: You don't have to worry about it because I'm the one that's taking care of it. It's my card.
Gwenevere Abriel: So catch yourself right there. You don't have to worry, I noticed that you went to content right you're defending yourself.
Gwenevere Abriel: Am I right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, yes. Okay. So that's where
Gwenevere Abriel: It's harder than you think. Notice that you didn't go to curiosity, what did you just do you defended your position. So you are right.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is, this is why it's so hard to do this, everything in you is going to want to argue the content of what I'm saying, hold on to the desk.
Gwenevere Abriel: And be like, I am going to let my mom know that I understand or care about how she's
Nadine Quintana: Okay, I think I got it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, no.
Nadine Quintana: No, no.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Okay, here we go. We're gonna do it again.
Gwenevere Abriel: I told you this is hard. This is this man, this ain't easy. Okay, here we go. Um,
Gwenevere Abriel: Needing Leslie driving with your daughter and running that stop sign. They're not old enough to be in there and it's in the car and now I have to deal with this. Why do I have to deal with this.
Nadine Quintana: Okay.
Nadine Quintana: Yes, you're right. I should uncover her right because she is under age and I should have been more responsible
Gwenevere Abriel: So what you did was you owned your grain of truth. You remember that that that technique you did that. Okay, which which is lovely. That is a good step, but does it investigate how I'm feeling. That was, that was really good.
Gwenevere Abriel: It probably will disarm her a little bit will calm down, she'll say, and then her next thing will be. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Built but
Gwenevere Abriel: Now, so, yeah, great grain of truth. Now, how do you investigate how I'm feeling. Go for it.
Okay.
Nadine Quintana: Um,
Nadine Quintana: I know this puts stress on you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Uh huh. Okay.
Nadine Quintana: And they should income.
Gwenevere Abriel: What, no don't go there again. You already did that part.
Nadine Quintana: Oh, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know in fact we can play with that a little bit. A little bit softer is I imagine that this has put even more stress on you. I imagine that have no because you don't do you
Gwenevere Abriel: So we got to soften up that phrase a little bit because that's almost like projecting
Gwenevere Abriel: So we want to play with words. A little and I've got these fancy ones which are I'm imagining
Gwenevere Abriel: Or the meaning I'm I'm making out of this is maybe, maybe you're feeling even more stress because of this, and she is going to be like, well, no kidding of course it does. But we want the yes that's a yes. And then you just keep staying with the emotion and the distress, so
Gwenevere Abriel: Keep going around that. I know this. This is making me stress. What else, see if you can ask. See if you could try and get me to talk about how I'm feeling.
Nadine Quintana: Okay, I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: Sorry hard
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, well, look at me. Watch it. Look at me, actually. Look at me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Imagine
Gwenevere Abriel: That it's needed, did that and see if you can care.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's like you turn the switch and I care.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're another human being in distress rational irrational. We're not deciding that that's in the zone of right, wrong.
Gwenevere Abriel: I just assume you're right, and then you just move on. So because you're already on your green issue. So it's nothing to be defensive about now. Do you do not turn the care lever on, you're going to show your care about how I'm feeling.
Nadine Quintana: Hard
Gwenevere Abriel: I imagine extra stress on you. Maybe start with that one.
Okay.
Nadine Quintana: Okay, I imagine, this has
Nadine Quintana: extra stress on you and I could just
Nadine Quintana: Imagine what you're going through right now and how you're feeling
Gwenevere Abriel: Put went out there, see what you think it might be. You said stress, but you might be one more piece I am I'm imagining what you might be going through IS A LOT OF WHY AM I RIGHT, MOM. Something like that. What's the other emotion side stress.
Nadine Quintana: Angry
Gwenevere Abriel: Angry
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, one more time, all the way through. You've got some really cool phrases ready to do it again. It'll feel different. When that pressures on. Don't forget to breathe. Remember, I'm okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't need to be right. I'm already. I already know my part, I don't mean to defend it, but I'm going to show my mom I care. That's what is going to change this dynamic okay ready
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Needy seriously you let Leslie and your daughter drive that car. It's a brand new car, and I'm gonna have to deal with the MVD
Nadine Quintana: Okay, yes.
Nadine Quintana: I was around by letting them drive the car that was irresponsible me
Nadine Quintana: And I should have not met them Jeremy car. I should have been more responsible and they should have Joel them to where they go.
Nadine Quintana: And
Nadine Quintana: I
Nadine Quintana: Imagine that you're feeling stressed and angry.
Gwenevere Abriel: Ask the question about, yeah.
Nadine Quintana: Is there.
Nadine Quintana: Anything as
Gwenevere Abriel: A MOM.
Nadine Quintana: Is that how you're feeling
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, wasn't that weird just now. It never even occurred you to ask
Gwenevere Abriel: Is that how you feeling is it
Um,
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, looks on you like
Gwenevere Abriel: But what a little because right we did the first. You did all the I already on the content that gets that offer mind you did that up front grain of truth. Done.
Gwenevere Abriel: Then you did the I imagine you're feeling kind of stressed and angry and maybe a little overwhelmed. Is that how you're feeling and the voice comes down and it's sweet. And it's this is the containment of someone's tender feeling
Gwenevere Abriel: Because this is the thing you need this is the thing we all need
Gwenevere Abriel: To see past our snarky or nasty art scratchy, by the way we act out and see I'm lonely. I feel rejected I'm unimportant like we have all this tender stuff underneath all that anger.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: One more time. Ready.
Gwenevere Abriel: Take a deep breath. I'm just, just going to say needing that was just ridiculous. I can't believe you did that. Okay.
Okay.
Nadine Quintana: Yes, you're right. I should have been merged responsible and I should not let them drive my vehicle.
Nadine Quintana: I should have brought up, and I should have to come to the star. That was really irresponsible of me.
Nadine Quintana: I'm sorry that you feel like that.
Nadine Quintana: I could just imagine that you're stressed out.
Nadine Quintana: And you're angry really
Gwenevere Abriel: Hard one asked me if
Gwenevere Abriel: I know you're gonna have to write this down. Not kidding.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Something if you're imagining something. What do you, what's the next thing you need to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: Check it out, see if it's true. Imagine you're feeling stressed and angry, Mom.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now, what
Nadine Quintana: Just really
Gwenevere Abriel: Is sad feeling mom.
Nadine Quintana: Okay, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, just how you're feeling okay
Nadine Quintana: Okay, here's how you're feeling
Gwenevere Abriel: Go a little sweeter, as if you were talking almost to a baby. Let me hear how it sounds feeling. Let me hear how that sounds on you.
OK.
Nadine Quintana: I can imagine that you're feeling angry and and stressed.
Nadine Quintana: And is that how you're feeling
Gwenevere Abriel: That feels weird.
Nadine Quintana: Yeah, what
Nadine Quintana: They were talking to my mom like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: But wouldn't that be nice if she talked to you like that.
Nadine Quintana: Oh, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, we need to do it first. You're the one in
Gwenevere Abriel: Therapy. She doesn't know shit about it.
Gwenevere Abriel: You see that
Gwenevere Abriel: That doesn't keep the argument going, I hope.
Nadine Quintana: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And notice how it doesn't come naturally. When you if you ever decide to do it, you're going to want to have grain of truth. I tell my side.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, it's going to be going to get angry. I'm going to breathe. I'm going to remember I'm okay on my grain of truth. I'm going to guess how she's feeling. And then I'm going to check it out. You're going to need to write that stuff down, look how hard it was I was here to coach, but I will
Gwenevere Abriel: Just going to be you and your notes for like
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, I'm imagining, you know, you're kind of pissed and frustrated and maybe overwhelm them. Is that how you're feeling I do this all the time so I can do this like
Gwenevere Abriel: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: But this this is different.
Gwenevere Abriel: So remember I said, all we're going to do today, it literally took us the whole time. And all I did.
Gwenevere Abriel: Was talk about that one little phrase.
Nadine Quintana: Mm hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: What's your family's does is they bite their tongue and we sister. You know, we got to deal with this crowd moms and saying why she doing
Gwenevere Abriel: What you do know more. You do know something's changing and she is having her on turmoil.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you're, you're not all in your drama. Now you can see your mommy can see she's going through something and she's scratching at you guys and making you heard over it.
Gwenevere Abriel: And because you're nearby and that's what family. Unfortunately, we end up hurting the people we love. And it's like, oh, well, you're the one getting professional help.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, this is, this is how you want to be treated. This is that, like, and so we somebody's got to bring it in the family. It's not going to be her
Nadine Quintana: Very
Gwenevere Abriel: And you can do it with your kids to write you recognize all this stuff. Now I'm not bringing anything new, but to do it in the moment when everything in you is like
Gwenevere Abriel: I already know how she feels. You know, I, you know, we already have assigned intention and the worst intention and instead of
Gwenevere Abriel: Opening our heart to the very person that's attacking us, it's just counterintuitive, but it can change the way our communication flows.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because she might end up saying, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then the next, we don't have time for the next step. And the next step. And the next step, but it's basically just mirror it
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, that yeah and also overwhelmed. I that that makes sense. I'm I would I would feel the same way.
Gwenevere Abriel: And all you do, you don't add more content. Well, you know what I've been a good mom and I bought by you know what you did. And what about all now you're lost, you're lost in content and it's an argument.
Gwenevere Abriel: Here, but if you stick with just narrowing her feelings.
Gwenevere Abriel: She's got no play, she's going to get bored with that conversation and go find somebody else to start some drama.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, what are you thinking
Nadine Quintana: Well, I was thinking like I
Nadine Quintana: I know what
Nadine Quintana: I know the steps. You know what I mean, like, but for some reason, I was just getting like
Nadine Quintana: Like stuck. I guess you could say.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well that's, that's because you're a human. You're not a robot, because we actually feel scared. We actually feel you feel it in your body. You can feel it in your head like there's so much at stake here.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it might be easier on the phone.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know what I mean with a little bit more distance and you do it a few times you've been able to just like you've been able to do it with your husband, a lot more assertiveness.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because there's this distance, but I gotta tell you, he gets out and you guys are still together, you're gonna be like
Nadine Quintana: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: That'd be intense, you know, and so, so you do it sort of progressively and you get there. My next client just got here.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's schedule another appointment.
Gwenevere Abriel: Could it be the same kind of time on May 18 at seven.
Nadine Quintana: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I mean, if something opens up and you know you guys will let me know. Along the way, if, if all doesn't work, just all of a sudden, everybody's working again or something you just, just let me know.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. All right, any medication attached to today. I didn't think there would be, but I thought it asked
Nadine Quintana: Yeah, I'm going to need an order because she just goes we for the week.
Gwenevere Abriel: Look at that. Let me go over to God. I brought it up message the doc that you're here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is it just the the subjects.
Nadine Quintana: Subjects Suboxone yeah
Nadine Quintana: You're getting someone
Gwenevere Abriel: I thought you were getting some checks.
Nadine Quintana: Know what I get the boxes. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, let me just go, well, I Don't Know If She'll. She'll do that part. I'll just say you're here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, okay, all right, my dear. I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: Write this stuff down, write your little steps have them handy in case you talked to her on the phone, you've already got them written out
Nadine Quintana: Okay.
Oh, sorry.
Nadine Quintana: What do you think, Dr. April would give me something for my right, you're like, I'm type body or something.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know. Do, do, do, do, do you want to
Gwenevere Abriel: Come by and say hello to her. You want to drop in at
Gwenevere Abriel: Like
Gwenevere Abriel: Five to 10 to two because she has a group at one you want to come by and say hi to her.
Gwenevere Abriel: What you
Gwenevere Abriel: Text me you're not going to be able to like
Gwenevere Abriel: They're not going to let you a group, it won't be like, so you'll have to text me because I'm going to get wrapped up in group of forget everything so just text me and I'll send you the, the group number just come in.
Gwenevere Abriel: When there's five minutes left just mute yourself when you come in and then you can meet with her.
Okay.
Nadine Quintana: Okay. All right.
I'll see you later.
Nadine Quintana: Thank you grant see